# Citibike Data and Tableau

[Tableau Public Link](https://public.tableau.com/profile/cale.green#!/vizhome/CitiBikeModuleChallenge/CitibikeStory?publish=yes)

## Overview

Inspired by our vacation to New York City and the freedom Citibike's bicycles gave us to explore the city, 
our friend Kate has decided to bring a similar bikeshare service to our hometown of Des Moines, Iowa. After
finding a potential angel investor, Kate tasked us with performing the exploratory analysis on Citibike ride
data for the project. 

## Results

We used Tableau to create visualizations of the data we analyzed. Here are the visualizations we used in our 
Tableau story:

![Checkout Time/Tripduration](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_1.png "Checkout Time")

Users tend to checkout the bikes for at least an hour, with the most frequent length of checkout being 4-6 
hours long.

![Checkout Time by Gender](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_2.png "Checkout Time by Gender")

The ridership is predominantly male. There is not a significant difference in the length of checkout time
by gender, though female riders may have a slight tendency towards longer checkout times. 

![Trips by Day of the Week by Hour](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_3.png "Trips by Day of Week by Hour")

During weekdays there are two peaks in ridership, around 8 AM and then again from 5-6 PM, suggesting that
riders tend to be using the bikes for work commutes during the week. Ridership on weekends is more evenly
spread throughout the middle portion of the day.

![Trips by Gender, Day of Week per Hour](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_4.png "Trips by Gender, Day of Week per Hour"

There is not not a significant difference by gender in the bike usage throughout the day, other the overall
higher rate of ridership by male users. 

![Users Trips by Gender by Weekday](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_5.png "User Trips by Gender by Weekday")

Citibike subscribers are more likely to the service during the week, while non-subscribers are more likely to
to use Citibike during the weekend. This suggests that Citibike subscribers are likely to use the service to 
commute to work. 

![Starting Locations](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_6.png "Starting Locations")

The highest concentration of trips begin in Manhattan, with a smaller amount of usage beginning in the outer
boroughs. 

![Ending Locations](https://github.com/greensleeves8/bikesharing/blob/main/Resources/Tableau_7.png "Ending Locations")

Most trips end in Manhattan as well, though more trips end than start in the outer boroughs, suggesting that
riders may use the bikes to travel from Manhattan to the outer boroughs more often than the contrary. 

## Summary

From the visualizations created, it appears that the most common rider profile for NYC Citibike is male 
subscribers who use the bikes to commute during the week. The next most common usage seems to come from 
non-subscribers on weekends. My concern for opening a similar service in Des Moines would be that while
there may be a decent rate of usage on weekends, there may not be a similar rate of usage during the week. 
There are several factors playing into this: demographics of the user, rates of renting vs. home ownership,
and car ownership rates. I believe that for a service of this type to be effective in a city such as Des
Moines versus one like New York City, it'd be important to target users who may be more likely to use the 
service frequently, such as college students, young workers in the growing city technology, sector, and 
staffers for the state government. For additional information on the NYC Citibike usage, I would like to 
see visualizations for the number of total trips taken, broken down by subcribers vs. customers, and I'd 
like to see the usage from month to month, as Des Moines may have a similar situation to New York due to 
winter weather conditions. 


